Run private network with docker tutorial (#2065)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/infrastructure/rippled/run-private-network-with-docker.md

---
html: private-network-with-docker.html
name: Run a Private Network with Docker
parent: infrastructure.html
blurb: Learn how to set up your own XRP private ledger network with Docker and Docker Compose.
labels:
  - Core Server
---

# Run a Private Network with Docker

This tutorial describes how to run a private XRP Ledger network on your computer with [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and the latest version of [rippled](https://hub.docker.com/r/xrpllabsofficial/xrpld).

While you can easily use the public XRP Testnet servers, running a private network can be useful when trying to understand how the XRP Ledger works, or when testing new features in isolation.

> **Caution:** This tutorial is mainly suited for development or testing purposes, and does not involve using real money. You should **not** use this configuration for a production network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Caution:** This tutorial is suited for development or testing purposes only, and does not involve using real money. You should **not** use this configuration for a production network.
```

## Learning Goals

In this tutorial, you will learn:

- How to set up and configure a _small_ network with three `rippled` validator nodes, including how to generate the keys for each node.

- How to run the network with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

- How to verify the network is up and running.

> The diagram below shows a high-level overview of the containerized private network that you will set up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows a high-level overview of the containerized private network that you will set up.
```

{{ include_svg("img/xrp-ledger-private-network-docker.svg", "Figure 1: Diagram of a three node containerized private ledger network") }}

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this tutorial, ensure that you have the latest version of **Docker** installed on your preferred platform.

## Generate the Validator Keys

> Generate the keys for **each** of your validator nodes by using the `validator-keys` tool provided with `rippled`. The generated keys should be saved in a text file on your computer for later use.

Reviewer: Add a link to the tool ?

Author: I didn't want to point users to the tool to further confuse them, as this tutorial is using the `validator-keys` tool included in `rippled`, via Docker (which works no problem). But, when building the tool separately (https://github.com/ripple/validator-keys-tool), I've come across errors. So I'm wondering if the standalone version is not being updated?

A few others have seen errors too: https://github.com/ripple/validator-keys-tool/issues/41

This response makes me less inclined to point users to it as well:
https://github.com/ripple/validator-keys-tool/issues/41#issuecomment-1599820254

Reviewer: Got it. Agree with you, let's not add a link.

1. In your terminal, run the following to execute commands within the `rippled` Docker container shell:

        docker run -it --entrypoint /bin/bash xrpllabsofficial/xrpld:latest

    **Note:** For Apple M1 or M2 chips, run `docker run -it --platform linux/amd64 --entrypoint /bin/bash xrpllabsofficial/xrpld:latest` instead.

    Sample output:

        root@7732bd585b14:/#

2. Generate a validator keypair using the `create_keys` command.

        cd /opt/ripple/bin &&
            ./validator-keys create_keys --keyfile /PATH/TO/YOUR/validator-<NUMBER>-keys.json

    Sample output:

        Validator keys stored in /PATH/TO/YOUR/validator-<NUMBER>-keys.json

        This file should be stored securely and not shared.

>     **Warning:** In a production or test environment you should follow best practices and store the generated keys in a secure, offline, and recoverable location, such as an encrypted USB flash drive. However, as this is an example for a local development set up, storing the keys on your computer is sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Warning:** In a production or test environment you should follow best practices always and store the generated keys in a secure, offline, and recoverable location, such as an encrypted USB flash drive. However, as this tutorial is an example of a local development setup, storing the keys on your computer is sufficient.
```

        }

4. Create a validator token using the `create_token` command.

        ./validator-keys create_token --keyfile /PATH/TO/YOUR/validator-<NUMBER>-keys.json

    Copy the token value from the output and save it in a text file on your computer. For example:

        [validator_token]
        eyJ2YWxpZGF0aW9uX3NlY3J|dF9rZXkiOiI5ZWQ0NWY4NjYyNDFjYzE4YTI3NDdiNT
        QzODdjMDYyNTkwNzk3MmY0ZTcxOTAyMzFmYWE5Mzc0NTdmYT|kYWY2IiwibWFuaWZl
        c3QiOiJKQUFBQUFGeEllMUZ0d21pbXZHdEgyaUNjTUpxQzlnVkZLaWxHZncxL3ZDeE
        hYWExwbGMyR25NaEFrRTFhZ3FYeEJ3RHdEYklENk9NU1l1TTBGREFscEFnTms4U0tG
        bjdNTzJmZGtjd1JRSWhBT25ndTlzQUtxWFlvdUorbDJWMFcrc0FPa1ZCK1pSUzZQU2
        hsSkFmVXNYZkFpQnNWSkdlc2FhZE9KYy9hQVpva1MxdnltR21WcmxIUEtXWDNZeXd1
        NmluOEhBU1FLUHVnQkQ2N2tNYVJGR3ZtcEFUSGxHS0pkdkRGbFdQWXk1QXFEZWRGdj
        VUSmEydzBpMjFlcTNNWXl3TFZKWm5GT3I3QzBrdzJBaVR6U0NqSXpkaXRROD0ifQ==

5. Repeat steps **2-4** for the remaining validator nodes. Once you have generated the keys and tokens for _all_ validators, enter `exit` in your terminal to exit the Docker container.

## Configure the Network

This section describes how to configure the validator nodes in your network.

> **Note:** The provided configuration enables the network to retain _some_ ledger history, but the amount of transaction history stored will depend on how long the network has been online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The configuration in this tutorial enables the network to retain _some_ ledger history, but the amount of transaction history stored will depend on how long the network has been online.
```

### Create the node directories

On your computer, create the directories for all nodes in the private network, and their respective configuration folders.

    xrpl-private-network/
        ├── validator_1/
        │   └── config
        ├── validator_2/
        │   └── config
        └── validator_3/
            └── config

> In your terminal, run the command below to create the directories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your terminal, run the following command to create the directories:
```

        docker exec -it validator_1 \
            rippled account_info r9wRwVgL2vWVnKhTPdtxva5vdH7FNw1zPs validated strict

    Sample Output:

        {
           "result" : {
               "account_data" : {
                 "Account" : "r9wRwVgL2vWVnKhTPdtxva5vdH7FNw1zPs",
                 "Balance" : "1000000000",
                 "Flags" : 0,
                 "LedgerEntryType" : "AccountRoot",
                 "OwnerCount" : 0,
                 "PreviousTxnID" : "EB516738841794B24819C68273E0F853A3D234350E6534F7F2841F620CE99437",
                 "PreviousTxnLgrSeq" : 36,
                 "Sequence" : 1,
                 "index" : "0F2E4615AE24EEF58EE82BD1E67D237234ED41BFC8B7885630B7AC05082E97AA"
               },
               "ledger_hash" : "6F9F54903CC4546F7A426CD78AFD68D907F5DC40B1780DF31A662CF65920E49C",
               "ledger_index" : 51,
               "status" : "success",
               "validated" : true
           }
        }
        
    All validator nodes should respond with the same balance of 1000000000 XRP for the `r9wRwVgL2vWVnKhTPdtxva5vdH7FNw1zPs` account.

> ## (Optional) Stop the Network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stop the Network
```

               "ledger_index" : 51,
               "status" : "success",
               "validated" : true
           }
        }
        
    All validator nodes should respond with the same balance of 1000000000 XRP for the `r9wRwVgL2vWVnKhTPdtxva5vdH7FNw1zPs` account.

## Stop the Network

If you wish to stop running the private network:

1. In your terminal, go to the `xrpl-private-network` directory.
2. Run the following command to shut down the network:

        docker-compose down

    Sample Output:

        [+] Running 4/4
         ✔ Container validator_3                 Removed                                                       1.7s
         ✔ Container validator_1                 Removed                                                       1.6s
         ✔ Container validator_2                 Removed                                                       1.6s
         ✔ Network xrpl-private-network_default  Removed                                                       0.0s

## See Also

- **Networks and Servers:**
    - [Peer Protocol](peer-protocol.html)
    
- **References:**

>     - [XRPL Testnet Setup Scripts for Docker](https://github.com/UNIC-IFF/ripple-docker-testnet)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [XRPL Testnet Setup Scripts for Docker](https://github.com/UNIC-IFF/xrpl-docker-testnet)
```
